---
title: Conjuring Scala day 1 review
tags: Scala, Hakell, Functional Programming
published: true
---

Yesterday was 1 of 10 in my quest to learn Scala at breakneck speed. I must admit it's off to a slow start, but today I'll be picking up the pace. I've noticed that my Haskell knowledge has come in handy right off the bat. The resource I was working off of yesterday was the Coursera "Functional Programming Principles in Scala" course. I would like to post some of the code I wrote yesterday, but the course asks that you refrain from sharing your solution code, so I'll have to make do with inventing new examples to share.  

##Pattern Matching  
I was really pleased to see that Scala offers fairly intuitive patern matching syntax as we can see in this silly little function:

```
def foo(a: Int, b: Int): Int = (a, b) match {
    case (0, _) => 0
    case (_, 0) => 0
    case (a, b) => a + b;
  }
```  

Altogether it's far more verbose than I'd like as compared to Haskell. The type annotations feel a bit clunky and this really seems to be a combination of what would be two distinct features in Haskell, pattern matching AND guard syntax. Another oddity to me is that we define foo as 2ary (taking two seperate arguments), but then we pattern match against a tuple, (a, b). Not the end of the world, but also not quite as elegant as I've become used to. Here's what I would do in Haskell:  

```
foo :: Int -> Int -> Int
foo 0 _ = 0
foo _ 0 = 0
foo a b = a + b
```

All in all I was pleased to see some familliar features that I like in functional style. I do still prefer the cleaner syntax of Haskell, but this is not bad so far. Different strokes I guess.  

In keeping with the conjurer's mentality, today I'll be diving into akka, a popular library for actors in Scala. I'm not sure I'm 100% comfortable with all the syntax of Scala yet and I'm not sure what actors are really for, but that's part of the fun! Throw yourself into the deep end and you're sure to come out having learned something.
